about.md, before:

---
layout: about
title: About
permalink: /about/
group: 'navigation'
---

My name is Ilja Panic. I'm a designer and technologist from Prague and currently based in London where I'm doing a degree in Smart Cities & Urban Analytics.

In 2012, I got fed up with a university in my hometown of Prague so I've made a website takemetodenmark.com that got me accepted to a business school in Copenhagen. I've worked as a front-end developer at two digital agencies during the studies there.

After earning a bachelor degree in Information Management in 2015, I've set up a solo freelance business specialising in Web Development, Information Architecture and UX Design.

After two years of freelancing, I've moved to London in the autumn of 2017 to pursue a master's degree at UCL and to connect with one of the world's most vibrant cities.

I'm passionate about technology and its role in the society. I'm interested in a broad spectrum of themes revolving around human-centred design, HCI, computational ethics, information behaviour and ubiquitous computing.

Commit message:

minor edits to about text

about.md, after:

---
layout: about
title: About
permalink: /about/
group: 'navigation'
---

My name is Ilja Panic. I'm a designer and technologist from Prague and currently based in London where I'm doing a degree in Smart Cities & Urban Analytics.

In 2012, I made a website takemetodenmark.com that got me accepted to a business school in Copenhagen. During my studies there I've worked as a front-end developer at two digital agencies.

After earning a degree in Information Management in 2015, I've set up a solo freelance business specialising in Web Development, Information Architecture and UX Design.

After two years of freelancing, I've moved to London in the autumn of 2017 to pursue a master's degree at UCL and to connect with one of the world's most vibrant cities.

I'm an avid student of technology and its role in society. I’m interested in a range of themes revolving around information design, HCI, computational ethics, information behaviour and ubiquitous computing.

Don't hesitate to get in touch. I'm always on a lookout for exciting projects and interesting people to collaborate with.
