content/pages/about.mdx, before:

My work typically fits under the umbrellas of UX and interface design, product development and programming. But I'm a generalist at heart, so most titles and disciplines seem fickle and fleeting.

At the end of the day, I love tinkering with new technologies and exploring our individual and collective relationships with them. I'm passionate about the web as a medium and love crafting experiences on it. I've been at it for 10+ years now.

I started off as a frontend developer at agencies, followed by a few years of freelancing – mostly building brochure websites and consulting early-stage startups on UX strategy.

Then I've spent some time doing product design at medium-sized SaaS companies and leading a UX team at one of the largest consumer cybersecurity companies.

Now, I'm building the tech behind [Converge](https://www.theconvergence.co/request-access) – a platform for facilitating collaboration and information exchange between people and organizations in impact and climate space.

Academically, I have a background in informatics, information management, smart cities & urban analytics, and digital fabrication. I still have a penchant for obscure academic genres such as media ecologies, digital anthropology, interspecies cybernetics or tools for thought. I will probably end up back in academia at some point in my life.

I'm currently based back home in Prague, Czech Republic after many years of living abroad.

Commit message:

update home and about texts

content/pages/about.mdx, after:

I’ve been enamored with the web as a medium since the first moment I opened a web browser as a kid back in the late 90s. I’ve been exploring personal computing and tinkering with digital technologies ever since.

Professionally, I’ve been building products on the web for a little over a decade. I specialize in strategic UX design and web development with a penchant for clear information architecture, design systems, and bespoke frontends.

I have worked with agencies, startups, non-profits, artists, small vendors, medium SaaS companies, and large corporations. I’m used to mediating between business, product, and development teams. I have experience leading design initiatives, establishing design processes, and shaping the overall design direction of organizations.

Currently, I'm building the tech behind [Converge](https://www.theconvergence.co/request-access), a platform that I co-founded with my long-time friend [Daniel](https://www.danielcervenka.com/). We are still figuring out what exactly it is that we’re making, but the overwhelmingly positive reactions so far seem to suggest we're onto something that many people in the impact and climate space will find useful to facilitate better information exchange and collaboration opportunities.

I strive to approach my practice with a critical eye, stemming from my eclectic academic background in complex systems and emergent technologies. Besides day-to-day work, I dabble with 3D printing, parametric and generative design, programming microcontrollers, digging through records, and collecting obscure books. These days, many of these activities are now on the back burner as I spend more time with my little daughter.
